Documentation/media/uapi/v4l/pixfmt-reserved.rst, before:

.. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
.. document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
.. Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software
.. Foundation, with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts
.. and no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of the license is included at
.. Documentation/media/uapi/fdl-appendix.rst.
..
.. TODO: replace it to GFDL-1.1-or-later WITH no-invariant-sections

.. _pixfmt-reserved:

***************************
Reserved Format Identifiers
***************************

These formats are not defined by this specification, they are just
listed for reference and to avoid naming conflicts. If you want to
register your own format, send an e-mail to the linux-media mailing list
`https://linuxtv.org/lists.php <https://linuxtv.org/lists.php>`__
for inclusion in the ``videodev2.h`` file. If you want to share your
format with other developers add a link to your documentation and send a
copy to the linux-media mailing list for inclusion in this section. If
you think your format should be listed in a standard format section
please make a proposal on the linux-media mailing list.


.. tabularcolumns:: |p{6.6cm}|p{2.2cm}|p{8.7cm}|

.. _reserved-formats:

.. flat-table:: Reserved Image Formats
    :header-rows:  1
    :stub-columns: 0
    :widths:       3 1 4

    * - Identifier
      - Code
      - Details
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-DV:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_DV``
      - 'dvsd'
      - unknown
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-ET61X251:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_ET61X251``
      - 'E625'
      - Compressed format of the ET61X251 driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-HI240:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_HI240``
      - 'HI24'
      - 8 bit RGB format used by the BTTV driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-HM12:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_HM12``
      - 'HM12'
      - YUV 4:2:0 format used by the IVTV driver,
	`http://www.ivtvdriver.org/ <http://www.ivtvdriver.org/>`__

	The format is documented in the kernel sources in the file
	``Documentation/media/v4l-drivers/cx2341x.rst``
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-CPIA1:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_CPIA1``
      - 'CPIA'
      - YUV format used by the gspca cpia1 driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-JPGL:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_JPGL``
      - 'JPGL'
      - JPEG-Light format (Pegasus Lossless JPEG) used in Divio webcams NW
	80x.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SPCA501:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SPCA501``
      - 'S501'
      - YUYV per line used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SPCA505:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SPCA505``
      - 'S505'
      - YYUV per line used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SPCA508:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SPCA508``
      - 'S508'
      - YUVY per line used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SPCA561:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SPCA561``
      - 'S561'
      - Compressed GBRG Bayer format used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-PAC207:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_PAC207``
      - 'P207'
      - Compressed BGGR Bayer format used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MR97310A:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MR97310A``
      - 'M310'
      - Compressed BGGR Bayer format used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-JL2005BCD:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_JL2005BCD``
      - 'JL20'
      - JPEG compressed RGGB Bayer format used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-OV511:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_OV511``
      - 'O511'
      - OV511 JPEG format used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-OV518:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_OV518``
      - 'O518'
      - OV518 JPEG format used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-PJPG:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_PJPG``
      - 'PJPG'
      - Pixart 73xx JPEG format used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SE401:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SE401``
      - 'S401'
      - Compressed RGB format used by the gspca se401 driver
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SQ905C:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SQ905C``
      - '905C'
      - Compressed RGGB bayer format used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MJPEG:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MJPEG``
      - 'MJPG'
      - Compressed format used by the Zoran driver
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-PWC1:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_PWC1``
      - 'PWC1'
      - Compressed format of the PWC driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-PWC2:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_PWC2``
      - 'PWC2'
      - Compressed format of the PWC driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SN9C10X:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SN9C10X``
      - 'S910'
      - Compressed format of the SN9C102 driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SN9C20X-I420:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SN9C20X_I420``
      - 'S920'
      - YUV 4:2:0 format of the gspca sn9c20x driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SN9C2028:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SN9C2028``
      - 'SONX'
      - Compressed GBRG bayer format of the gspca sn9c2028 driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-STV0680:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_STV0680``
      - 'S680'
      - Bayer format of the gspca stv0680 driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-WNVA:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_WNVA``
      - 'WNVA'
      - Used by the Winnov Videum driver,
	`http://www.thedirks.org/winnov/ <http://www.thedirks.org/winnov/>`__
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-TM6000:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_TM6000``
      - 'TM60'
      - Used by Trident tm6000
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-CIT-YYVYUY:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_CIT_YYVYUY``
      - 'CITV'
      - Used by xirlink CIT, found at IBM webcams.

	Uses one line of Y then 1 line of VYUY
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-KONICA420:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_KONICA420``
      - 'KONI'
      - Used by Konica webcams.

	YUV420 planar in blocks of 256 pixels.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-YYUV:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_YYUV``
      - 'YYUV'
      - unknown
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-Y4:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_Y4``
      - 'Y04 '
      - Old 4-bit greyscale format. Only the most significant 4 bits of
	each byte are used, the other bits are set to 0.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-Y6:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_Y6``
      - 'Y06 '
      - Old 6-bit greyscale format. Only the most significant 6 bits of
	each byte are used, the other bits are set to 0.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-S5C-UYVY-JPG:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_S5C_UYVY_JPG``
      - 'S5CI'
      - Two-planar format used by Samsung S5C73MX cameras. The first plane
	contains interleaved JPEG and UYVY image data, followed by meta
	data in form of an array of offsets to the UYVY data blocks. The
	actual pointer array follows immediately the interleaved JPEG/UYVY
	data, the number of entries in this array equals the height of the
	UYVY image. Each entry is a 4-byte unsigned integer in big endian
	order and it's an offset to a single pixel line of the UYVY image.
	The first plane can start either with JPEG or UYVY data chunk. The
	size of a single UYVY block equals the UYVY image's width
	multiplied by 2. The size of a JPEG chunk depends on the image and
	can vary with each line.

	The second plane, at an offset of 4084 bytes, contains a 4-byte
	offset to the pointer array in the first plane. This offset is
	followed by a 4-byte value indicating size of the pointer array.
	All numbers in the second plane are also in big endian order.
	Remaining data in the second plane is undefined. The information
	in the second plane allows to easily find location of the pointer
	array, which can be different for each frame. The size of the
	pointer array is constant for given UYVY image height.

	In order to extract UYVY and JPEG frames an application can
	initially set a data pointer to the start of first plane and then
	add an offset from the first entry of the pointers table. Such a
	pointer indicates start of an UYVY image pixel line. Whole UYVY
	line can be copied to a separate buffer. These steps should be
	repeated for each line, i.e. the number of entries in the pointer
	array. Anything what's in between the UYVY lines is JPEG data and
	should be concatenated to form the JPEG stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MT21C:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MT21C``
      - 'MT21'
      - Compressed two-planar YVU420 format used by Mediatek MT8173.
	The compression is lossless.
	It is an opaque intermediate format and the MDP hardware must be
	used to convert ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MT21C`` to ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_NV12M``,
	``V4L2_PIX_FMT_YUV420M`` or ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_YVU420``.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SUNXI-TILED-NV12:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SUNXI_TILED_NV12``
      - 'ST12'
      - Two-planar NV12-based format used by the video engine found on Allwinner
	(codenamed sunxi) platforms, with 32x32 tiles for the luminance plane
	and 32x64 tiles for the chrominance plane. The data in each tile is
	stored in linear order, within the tile bounds. Each tile follows the
	previous one linearly in memory (from left to right, top to bottom).

	The associated buffer dimensions are aligned to match an integer number
	of tiles, resulting in 32-aligned resolutions for the luminance plane
	and 16-aligned resolutions for the chrominance plane (with 2x2
	subsampling).

.. tabularcolumns:: |p{6.6cm}|p{2.2cm}|p{8.7cm}|

.. _format-flags:

.. flat-table:: Format Flags
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0
    :widths:       3 1 4

    * - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_FLAG_PREMUL_ALPHA``
      - 0x00000001
      - The color values are premultiplied by the alpha channel value. For
	example, if a light blue pixel with 50% transparency was described
	by RGBA values (128, 192, 255, 128), the same pixel described with
	premultiplied colors would be described by RGBA values (64, 96,
	128, 128)

Commit message:

media: v4l: Add definition for the Aspeed JPEG format
This introduces support for the Aspeed JPEG format, where the new frame
can refer to previous frame to reduce the amount of compressed data. The
concept is similar to I/P frame of video compression. I will compare the
new frame with previous one to decide which macroblock's data is
changed, and only the changed macroblocks will be compressed.

This Aspeed JPEG format is used by the video engine on Aspeed platforms,
which is generally adapted for remote KVM.

Signed-off-by: Jammy Huang <jammy_huang@aspeedtech.com>
Change-Id: If2c28e42fc7b4d80032a1512ef0cc61fd8e9ac1b

Documentation/media/uapi/v4l/pixfmt-reserved.rst, after:

.. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
.. document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
.. Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software
.. Foundation, with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts
.. and no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of the license is included at
.. Documentation/media/uapi/fdl-appendix.rst.
..
.. TODO: replace it to GFDL-1.1-or-later WITH no-invariant-sections

.. _pixfmt-reserved:

***************************
Reserved Format Identifiers
***************************

These formats are not defined by this specification, they are just
listed for reference and to avoid naming conflicts. If you want to
register your own format, send an e-mail to the linux-media mailing list
`https://linuxtv.org/lists.php <https://linuxtv.org/lists.php>`__
for inclusion in the ``videodev2.h`` file. If you want to share your
format with other developers add a link to your documentation and send a
copy to the linux-media mailing list for inclusion in this section. If
you think your format should be listed in a standard format section
please make a proposal on the linux-media mailing list.


.. tabularcolumns:: |p{6.6cm}|p{2.2cm}|p{8.7cm}|

.. _reserved-formats:

.. flat-table:: Reserved Image Formats
    :header-rows:  1
    :stub-columns: 0
    :widths:       3 1 4

    * - Identifier
      - Code
      - Details
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-DV:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_DV``
      - 'dvsd'
      - unknown
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-ET61X251:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_ET61X251``
      - 'E625'
      - Compressed format of the ET61X251 driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-HI240:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_HI240``
      - 'HI24'
      - 8 bit RGB format used by the BTTV driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-HM12:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_HM12``
      - 'HM12'
      - YUV 4:2:0 format used by the IVTV driver,
	`http://www.ivtvdriver.org/ <http://www.ivtvdriver.org/>`__

	The format is documented in the kernel sources in the file
	``Documentation/media/v4l-drivers/cx2341x.rst``
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-CPIA1:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_CPIA1``
      - 'CPIA'
      - YUV format used by the gspca cpia1 driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-JPGL:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_JPGL``
      - 'JPGL'
      - JPEG-Light format (Pegasus Lossless JPEG) used in Divio webcams NW
	80x.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SPCA501:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SPCA501``
      - 'S501'
      - YUYV per line used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SPCA505:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SPCA505``
      - 'S505'
      - YYUV per line used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SPCA508:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SPCA508``
      - 'S508'
      - YUVY per line used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SPCA561:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SPCA561``
      - 'S561'
      - Compressed GBRG Bayer format used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-PAC207:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_PAC207``
      - 'P207'
      - Compressed BGGR Bayer format used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MR97310A:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MR97310A``
      - 'M310'
      - Compressed BGGR Bayer format used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-JL2005BCD:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_JL2005BCD``
      - 'JL20'
      - JPEG compressed RGGB Bayer format used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-OV511:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_OV511``
      - 'O511'
      - OV511 JPEG format used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-OV518:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_OV518``
      - 'O518'
      - OV518 JPEG format used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-PJPG:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_PJPG``
      - 'PJPG'
      - Pixart 73xx JPEG format used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SE401:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SE401``
      - 'S401'
      - Compressed RGB format used by the gspca se401 driver
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SQ905C:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SQ905C``
      - '905C'
      - Compressed RGGB bayer format used by the gspca driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MJPEG:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MJPEG``
      - 'MJPG'
      - Compressed format used by the Zoran driver
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-PWC1:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_PWC1``
      - 'PWC1'
      - Compressed format of the PWC driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-PWC2:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_PWC2``
      - 'PWC2'
      - Compressed format of the PWC driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SN9C10X:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SN9C10X``
      - 'S910'
      - Compressed format of the SN9C102 driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SN9C20X-I420:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SN9C20X_I420``
      - 'S920'
      - YUV 4:2:0 format of the gspca sn9c20x driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SN9C2028:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SN9C2028``
      - 'SONX'
      - Compressed GBRG bayer format of the gspca sn9c2028 driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-STV0680:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_STV0680``
      - 'S680'
      - Bayer format of the gspca stv0680 driver.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-WNVA:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_WNVA``
      - 'WNVA'
      - Used by the Winnov Videum driver,
	`http://www.thedirks.org/winnov/ <http://www.thedirks.org/winnov/>`__
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-TM6000:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_TM6000``
      - 'TM60'
      - Used by Trident tm6000
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-CIT-YYVYUY:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_CIT_YYVYUY``
      - 'CITV'
      - Used by xirlink CIT, found at IBM webcams.

	Uses one line of Y then 1 line of VYUY
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-KONICA420:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_KONICA420``
      - 'KONI'
      - Used by Konica webcams.

	YUV420 planar in blocks of 256 pixels.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-YYUV:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_YYUV``
      - 'YYUV'
      - unknown
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-Y4:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_Y4``
      - 'Y04 '
      - Old 4-bit greyscale format. Only the most significant 4 bits of
	each byte are used, the other bits are set to 0.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-Y6:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_Y6``
      - 'Y06 '
      - Old 6-bit greyscale format. Only the most significant 6 bits of
	each byte are used, the other bits are set to 0.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-S5C-UYVY-JPG:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_S5C_UYVY_JPG``
      - 'S5CI'
      - Two-planar format used by Samsung S5C73MX cameras. The first plane
	contains interleaved JPEG and UYVY image data, followed by meta
	data in form of an array of offsets to the UYVY data blocks. The
	actual pointer array follows immediately the interleaved JPEG/UYVY
	data, the number of entries in this array equals the height of the
	UYVY image. Each entry is a 4-byte unsigned integer in big endian
	order and it's an offset to a single pixel line of the UYVY image.
	The first plane can start either with JPEG or UYVY data chunk. The
	size of a single UYVY block equals the UYVY image's width
	multiplied by 2. The size of a JPEG chunk depends on the image and
	can vary with each line.

	The second plane, at an offset of 4084 bytes, contains a 4-byte
	offset to the pointer array in the first plane. This offset is
	followed by a 4-byte value indicating size of the pointer array.
	All numbers in the second plane are also in big endian order.
	Remaining data in the second plane is undefined. The information
	in the second plane allows to easily find location of the pointer
	array, which can be different for each frame. The size of the
	pointer array is constant for given UYVY image height.

	In order to extract UYVY and JPEG frames an application can
	initially set a data pointer to the start of first plane and then
	add an offset from the first entry of the pointers table. Such a
	pointer indicates start of an UYVY image pixel line. Whole UYVY
	line can be copied to a separate buffer. These steps should be
	repeated for each line, i.e. the number of entries in the pointer
	array. Anything what's in between the UYVY lines is JPEG data and
	should be concatenated to form the JPEG stream.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-MT21C:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MT21C``
      - 'MT21'
      - Compressed two-planar YVU420 format used by Mediatek MT8173.
	The compression is lossless.
	It is an opaque intermediate format and the MDP hardware must be
	used to convert ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_MT21C`` to ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_NV12M``,
	``V4L2_PIX_FMT_YUV420M`` or ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_YVU420``.
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-SUNXI-TILED-NV12:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_SUNXI_TILED_NV12``
      - 'ST12'
      - Two-planar NV12-based format used by the video engine found on Allwinner
	(codenamed sunxi) platforms, with 32x32 tiles for the luminance plane
	and 32x64 tiles for the chrominance plane. The data in each tile is
	stored in linear order, within the tile bounds. Each tile follows the
	previous one linearly in memory (from left to right, top to bottom).

	The associated buffer dimensions are aligned to match an integer number
	of tiles, resulting in 32-aligned resolutions for the luminance plane
	and 16-aligned resolutions for the chrominance plane (with 2x2
	subsampling).
    * .. _V4L2-PIX-FMT-AJPG:

      - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_AJPG``
      - 'AJPG'
      - ASPEED JPEG format used by the aspeed-video driver on Aspeed platforms,
        which is generally adapted for remote KVM.
        On each frame compression, I will compare the new frame with previous
        one to decide which macroblock's data is changed, and only the changed
        macroblocks will be compressed.

        You could reference to chapter 36, Video Engine, of AST2600's datasheet
        for more information. Or you can reference Video stream data format
        – ASPEED mode compression of SDK_User_Guide which available on
        AspeedTech-BMC/openbmc/releases.

.. tabularcolumns:: |p{6.6cm}|p{2.2cm}|p{8.7cm}|

.. _format-flags:

.. flat-table:: Format Flags
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0
    :widths:       3 1 4

    * - ``V4L2_PIX_FMT_FLAG_PREMUL_ALPHA``
      - 0x00000001
      - The color values are premultiplied by the alpha channel value. For
	example, if a light blue pixel with 50% transparency was described
	by RGBA values (128, 192, 255, 128), the same pixel described with
	premultiplied colors would be described by RGBA values (64, 96,
	128, 128)
